# GazeBound
The player moves using a basic wasd movement. The creature spawns randomly and if it hears or senses or sees the player it automatically triggers a chase in which the the creature will continously be aware of the player while tracking him silently. Once the creature gets into a certain range the player will hear a sound queue, making it imperative for him to look around to try and spot the creature. The creature's footsteps will also become hearable after the sound queue was triggered making it easier and the only way to track it. If the player spots the creature and fixes his gaze upon it the creature will freeze and once the player is out of the ,,danger range" the creature will despawn and spawn somewhere else, but this requires the player to maintain a fixed gaze as an erratic one will cause the creature to still be able to slightly move towards the player, once the creature is no longer visible or the player passes a certain range away from it, the creature will despawn. On the contrary, if the player fails to spot the creature and it gets too close, it will trigger a jumpscare and instant death. As for the map, the player will have to figure out the right way towards the exit, without any help or clues. There will be pages of a journal that you can collect and will influence the ending. Collecting none or not all of the pages will give a basic ending where the player learns nothing about the main character, but collecting all will reveal his backstory and identity,making it optional to actually collect them. Now if the player gets chased too often it will lower his sanity and he will start to hallucinate, causing random sound queues or footsteps to be heard, making it even hard for the player to track the real creature. Sanity can be regained only if the player manages to stay away from the creature for a long time. The player also CAN'T run only walk but the creature moves relatively fast. also while in a chase, the ambiance and music will also play a role and stress the player.
